= DigitalSafe technical document template
Your Name <your.email@hpe.com>
v1.0, 2017-10-27

This paragraph should give a brief overview of the feature or component being
developed.


== Requirements

Give a link to a requirements ticket or document and list the principle (key)
aspects here:

- Requirement 1
- Requirement 2
- Requirement 3...


== Implementation details

This section should go into the _implementation_ detail, specifically an
overview of the different parts of the DigitalSafe code base that would need to
be modified to serve a specific purpose. Any new hardware or software components
that are being proposed should be introduced here, explaining their use case and
generally why it is a good fit for purpose. If any older components already
accepted in DigitalSafe are being replaced or superceded, the benefits over the
prior solution should be discussed.

Optionally, a diagram may be useful here if there are many aspects to the
technical design that need to fit together. This can be accomplished with the
following:

```
image::my_diagram.png[]
```

The implementation details are _primarily_ the concern of the engineering teams,
but may require discussion with other teams depending upon the size, severity,
and content of the proposal.

=== Scaling

Additionally, as part of the implementation details section or a subsection, the
scaling of the feature (if relevant) should be discussed.

=== Failure modes 

For the features and/or technologies being proposed as part of the technical
document, the _failure modes_ for each should be listed and discussed. These
include possible states of the component's environment that would cause a
variation in the operation of that component in such a way that the feature as a
whole may not work as expected. The consequences of these failures and possible
rectification or remediation possibilities should be explored.

The failure modes are the concern of the engineering and operations teams.

=== Backwards compatibility

Any APIs, be it REST, MBean, or RMI/ZNIO interfaces that are to be modified as
a consequence of this proposal should be listed, along with whether these
changes are backwards compatible. If they are not backwards compatible, the
reasons for this should be detailed, along with potential alternatives for
calling code or clients.

=== Alternatives considered

If relevant, it may be beneficial to quickly state alternative technologies or
approaches considered and rejected as part of the creation of the technical
proposal. These explanations may aid the reader in interpreting the document and
assisting in future technical evaluations.


== Resourcing, hardware and costing

Based upon knowledge of the requirements and technologies involved, the
resources required (in terms of CPU, RAM, network bandwidth, and raw storage)
should be discussed and estimated here. The location of the components in
context of the DigitalSafe infrastructure should be discussed (such as machine
types) and if any native software components or additional hardware are
introduced then special attention should be paid to what operating systems are
required for the proposed design.

Resourcing and prerequisites may need review from the engineering,
implementations, systems engineering and operations teams. Additionally, if the
resourcing is particularly non-standard it may require business input from
product management.


== Operation and monitoring

If _relevant_ to the proposed design, this section should discuss how the new
feature and/or any new technologies introduced as part of this design can be
managed by the operations team, including whether existing tools will suffice to
automate and manage the feature/technologies and if not, what will be produced
as part of the engineering process. For new technologies, be it software or
hardware, the procedure for verifying the health of the relevant aspects and the
proposed mechanism(s) for monitoring them should be discussed. Considerations
regarding the upkeep and future maintenance of any software and hardware
components should be considered, particularly if security aspects are involved.

The content of this section (if required) is _primarily_ the concern of the
operations and monitoring teams.


== Build and deployment

If the component is anything other than plain Java code or modification to an
existing deployed package, the reasoning behind the complexity should be
discussed here, along with a proposed mechanism for building and deploying the
new component(s). There should be particular attention to any cases where
additional infrastructure is required to support a build process which is
currently not part of the engineering CI workflow.

This section is _primarily_ the concern of the operations team.
